hi this is Debra Quinn with a pastry
Swan bakery in Palm Desert California
today we're going to show you some ideas
for making a topsy-turvy cake what we're
going to do is topsy-turvy cake which is
basically going to be a crooked cake
very easy to make crooked cake anybody
can do it this cake because if we've
started off a little too straight we're
going to make a crooked and I've chosen
a carrot cake just because it's gonna be
a little denser a little heavier but any
kind of cake will work any type of
fillings what I'm going to do is I'm
going to just stop start on the top and
take a little bit off but I'm going to
angle it at a crooked pace there so you
can see that is a little crooked right
there I'm going to turn this flip this
over then first going to put a little
bit of a frosting this is just a simple
buttercream here that I have in this bag
and it's going to be just a glue we
already have our fillings cream cheese
in there so we're going to just put a
little bit of frosting I'm going to do
is I'm going to turn this cake around
and put it back on so that we actually
have gave it more of a diagonal so what
I did is I took a piece off of it
crooked turned it around and get give
this a higher base so next what we want
to do is we want to make it a little bit
more lopsided it is definitely a crooked
cake as you can see but we are also
going to take a little bit off the edge
so if you're going to make a cake with a
certain amount of servings what you want
to do is bake the cake a little bit
bigger so that when you actually take a
little bit of cake off you're still
going to get the servings that you want
so I'm tilting the knife in just a
little bit so that I can make this as
well a little bit crooked on the bottom
so now not only do we have a crooked
shape on the top but we have an angled
shape on the side there as well so
getting very crooked there we're going
to give this a quick icing and give it
some color and then I'll show very
simple ways to decorate this up
topsy-turvy we also call Mad Hatter so
it's anything goes and they think any
kind of color is going to make this fun
okay we're going to give it just a thin
coat of frosting on the outside
only for taste benefit but as well to
make the European rolled fondant that
we're going to place on the outside of
this cake stick to it as well this bag
is what we call our easy icer it's just
a very flat tip there and keep that
crooked look on there so while he's
coating that in a nice blue color
I've taken some chocolate fondant or you
can just do a brown colored fondant or
any other color that you want to do and
I'm going to just cut out so I'm going
to cut out some strips put a little bit
of water on there so the fondant sticks
like fondant start at the top
and just follow my line of water that
I've got going there
once we put a message on here is just
simply use little square pieces of
fondant that we've made ahead of time to
set up a little bit make our favorite
little ball decorations which are just
going to be really fun in there we're
also going to give it just some dots all
around in the blue spots here this is
our topsy-turvy cake like I said anybody
can make a crooked cake and those were
ideas for some topsy-turvy cakes from
the pastry Swan bakery